yo
here's what gotta be careful
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well
what's going on everybody welcome back
welcome back and different ghosts hey
thank you for the 10.
thank you so much i appreciate that
thank you for being here hope you're
doing well
that's wild starting off a banger folks
thank you for the gift of subs i
appreciate that thank you so much what's
going on everybody welcome
welcome paco's watching class seven on
youtube wanting to stop by and say live
hi
what's up welcome
what's going on everybody welcome in
welcome in
habs let's go indeed hey
argan curtis hey thank you with the raid
thanks for bringing the crew along hope
you're doing well
hey let's go everybody good to see you
uh tonight
tonight
kmp is on class one
hey let's go
what up frank what's going on everybody
tonight ah
tonight's one of my favorite classes
we're gonna we're gonna go on a journey
tonight folks
we're gonna go on a journey tonight we
we we started like come on think about
what you've been able to do recently
think about what you've been able to do
recently
i see your apis you've been building
some api
have you been building some apis
have you been have you have you been
building some apis are you are you a
full stack developer now let's go
i've been trying i feel that i feel that
you're trying
if you're trying you're a full stack
developer baby let's go
let's go
i see you all out here
oh
i think to think just a
a few weeks ago
we were in the throes of html and css
and yet you threw yourself at that and
you you came across clean then you threw
yourself at javascript and you came
across clean and now you're throwing
yourself at the back end
let's go
come on
we ain't normal folks we built different
other folks ain't giving up their nights
and weekends or mornings and afternoons
to do this
get out of here
we built different
let's go
so
tonight
is one of my favorite classes
by the end of tonight
we should have an idea
of how to build an api that not only
reads because that's what we did we
built an that that get right we went out
and got right our apis were able to go
get
all right but now after tonight we're
gonna be able to to to to do our posts
to do the to do the creating
right to do the creating then we're
going to be able to do the uh the read
which we already got on lock and then a
little bit uh
a little bit of deleting just so just a
smidge a little bit a little
delayed right a little little delay tay
tonight right
and so after tonight you're gonna have
three
of the crud
abilities on your tool belt to start
building
to start building real applications
after tonight you can build whatever the
heck you want
yeah we're going to add some other stuff
we're going to add like authentication
but that's just that's just taking some
stuff off the shelf
and and plugging it into what we already
know
right
we after tonight you can build
the things you want to build and yeah we
have to do a lot of research we have to
pull stuff off the shelf from other
places but the core
of modern web applications
you're gonna have
in your tool belt
that's wild
that's wild that's wild
the fact that if you started this
journey in january
right now you have an understanding of
what the heck i'm talking about you're
like well leon
i understand that we have client and
server-side devices clients make
requests to servers servers hear that
request there's some code running on
that server
we call that our api our api here's that
code and then it does some good stuff
for us
right we've been serving up some json
recently but tonight we're going to
introduce mongodb and ejs so that we can
get data from our database plug in into
our ejs templates and respond
with some good old html that html
gets rendered by the browser and guess
what it makes requests for the css it
makes requests for the javascript it
makes requests for our images and we're
going to have some code set up on our
server that's listening for those
requests and serves it up if you have
any idea what the heck i just said
you should be proud of yourself
you really should
we go if you if you understood like 50
of that
you should be proud because that's a lot
of work
it's a lot of work to get there
it's a lot of long nights it's a lot of
long weekends it's a lot of reading it's
a lot of typing it's a lot of fingers
hurting sorry you called but not the
right time i got some code to do
you should be proud of that
nobody can take that away from you
that knowledge is in there
you got this
so tonight we're going to add some
layers on
and what i want you to do tonight
is to realize
that i am telling a story
i need you to understand
right
i need you to understand the story
i don't want you nerding out about the
details of the story
i don't want you being like oh did leon
say they were in san francisco and that
they ate at the crab shack and then
you're you're trying to remember that
they were they were they were in san
francisco they ate at the crab shack no
i just want you to understand that they
were having a good time
so today we're gonna paint a story
we're gonna paint a picture
of how
a full stack web application that can
create read and delete works
but i don't need you to go in to be like
all right well i gotta put this dot here
and that that that parentheses there no
that's not tonight that's thursday
that's thursday
tonight's about understanding the why
exactly mjs the understanding the why
it's understanding the concept it's
understanding the big picture exactly
casa it's understanding
how this is happening
looking at some of the code
but we're not going to code anything
from scratch tonight we're not going to
type things out we're going to try and
connect the dots
right we're going to try and connect the
dots to understand how this big picture
gets painted
right
how the big picture gets painted and
then on thursday we'll walk through it
again
right we'll we'll get our fingers on the
keyboard we'll type everything out from
scratch we'll see how all the pieces
come together but even as we're looking
at this stuff you have to remember
i ain't got this [__] memorized
i'm copying and pasting my ass off i got
templates out the wazoo that i'm using
and yoinking the stuff together because
we're using building blocks we got
really fancy legos that were piecing
together and so it's not important to
understand how the lego company is
molding the bricks how they're getting
the little dots on top that's that's too
much we just want to understand all
right we put these blocks together we
can build dope stuff
i'm dope and i do dope stuff and tonight
we build some amazing apps we're going
to build a really cool app that extends
on the api that we did last week
we're gonna understand the why the how
but give yourself some grace on when you
see the wall code you ready hold on i'm
gonna keep it small so you can't you
can't freak out when you see the wall of
code you don't freak out right you're
like oh
that's not today right i'm keeping it
small so you don't freak out right when
you see the code you're not gonna be
like all right
let me let me
let me do my best
let me get some water
let me get a deep breath in
let's
think up through it let's let's diagram
let's bring i'm gonna channel all the
inner nuns i have in me tonight
and you're going to digest it you're
going to re-watch the vod you're going
to redo the zell reading you're going to
come back on thursday and we're going to
repaint the picture again so
tonight big picture
building full stack web applications
that can create that can read that can
delete what is going on we can do this
stuff now
and it gets all much more sweeter we're
gonna add the updating on thursday and
then you got it folks the world is yours
you can build whatever the heck you want
and over the rest of program we're just
gonna add some other tools some other
things that we can pull off the shelf to
do some more heavy lifting
alrighty folks let's get into tonight
i'm glad you're here i'm glad you're
putting in the work let's get you across
that finish line
all right
tonight we're talking about 100 devs
we've got some stuff to talk about
we're going to do reviewing some crud
we're going to review a little bit of
express
we're going to learn about that post and
delete and then you're gonna for a
homework
mold what we have
to start building your own apps not
tonight but after thursday you're gonna
start building your own apps cool
all right
questions let's always give folks a
second or two to get in here i know we
gave a little bit of a speech at the
beginning so folks might be here already
let's do one or two questions and then
we're going to get started
crud and rest the same thing for right
now yes
we'll nerd about the details in a little
bit
but for now yeah you're building restful
apis at the moment we'll talk about the
the actual
kind of nerdy definitions once we
figured out crud once once we understand
credit we can use it we understand it
we're building real stuff with it
then we'll go into the understand phase
right remember we said use
understand
build
we're in the use phase
we have to be able to use credit first
we have to be able to use to create the
read the updates the deletes
right
right and then once we've used it we've
seen it it's tangible it's not some it's
not some nerd stuff that we're talking
about something that we've built then we
can transition into the understand
right and in that understand phase we'll
understand all right what are the what
are the mechanics of a restful api what
what what what really goes into it
and then
we'll worry about
the building and start to build more and
more stuff on top of that foundation
does it count that i contribute to open
source even though my pr hasn't been
merged yet technically not yet
because you want to be able to show that
to an employer that hey my code is in
this this app
all right are we coding along not today
not today today is about understanding
it's about digesting
yeah we were shouted out in the cold
wars newsletter that was pretty dope
uh we're we're we're we've been i mean
we do a lot of code wars so
we out here we online that's all i got
to say so we did get that nice shout out
in the codewords newsletter i've been
trying to get on their newsletter i've
signed up for like four or five times i
still don't get it but i i appreciate
all the folks that tagged me on twitter
with it
code wars number one customer is for
sure blah exactly
definitely
all right folks
glad we are in here
glad we are
here that we're online that we're live
so we can jump into these support topics
tonight thank you for the questions
thank you for being here let's get into
it if you haven't already folks please
check in for me
go ahead and do excitation point
check-in if you don't have the link
tonight uh once you do estimation point
check-in it will give you the twitter
link that you can go ahead and like and
retweet i will give you a second
remember this is your attendance if you
want all the wonderful benefits that
come post-program one of the things i'm
gonna look up is where are you here
so please like retweet so that i know
that you were here that you were live
with us in line so i can say yes they
did learn about crud yes they did learn
how to create read and delete on
june the 7th i saw them they were here
they were online
all right so go ahead and do that for me
please it's also a wonderful way for
folks to find us not to dish out all
those monies for a paid bootcamp
alrighty thank you for checking in
submitting work i want to see your api
work so if you worked on your api this
past weekend uh something i asked you to
do for homework i want to see what
you're able to come up with i saw a lot
of people tagging me on twitter you guys
are looking fire
go ahead and submit that work for me you
can just click the link either here in
the slides or in the discord message and
i want to see what you're able to build
whatever to come up with it's going to
ask for your github link and your heroku
link
if you for some reason weren't able to
get on heroku that's okay if that's
struggling just give me the github repo
or if you only have it on heroku
push the github so i have that too
cool
so no like no like zips or anything just
give me the the heroku link and the
github link please
[Laughter]
submit the spice girls api i know you
really wanted a i'm excited
i got an error trying to install heroku
swing on to our node help or our general
programming help uh if you're getting
stuck with those types of problems
all righty thank you for submitting your
work if you uh need a little bit time
after class go ahead and um jump into it
cool
i actually do some video watching uh
it's super important uh that you went
through the jake archipel videos the
philip roberts videos to really
understand what's happening behind the
scenes in that event loop yes we covered
it in class a few times but it really
does help cement that understanding
also i just want to shout out zell again
if you didn't do the crud mongodb
reading it is absolutely essential that
you get through that reading not only do
they break down all this stuff they show
you pictures like step by step how to do
things on [__] atlas like step by step
how to do all these different steps it's
a lot of work it is a hard bit of code
to get through but it is totally worth
it um zell i i i keep saying it but they
make some of the best things online for
new devs getting into it so if you're
like saying watching this on youtube for
some reason definitely make sure you
read the zell reading that's here in the
slides
cool
i actually don't know if the slides link
is updated today hold on let me do that
real quick
we might have the old slides link right
now one second
yeah sorry i didn't update it
one second here
joint
i'm gonna grab it from the discord okay
i just know some folks
have a hard time grabbing it on discord
before class
there we go
grabbing that one second off screen here
all right
lights have been updated if you need to
use that slide command to grab them uh
so
once again just huge shout out to zell a
lot of the uh some of the examples we'll
be using some of the things that they
recommend is very similar uh to their
work because i want you to be able to
transition from that reading to our uh
our examples here so if you haven't they
also have tons of other articles it's
it's really impressive you need to go
watch and read their stuff
cool all right
summer break folks
so this will be our second to last class
before our summer break so we have class
tonight
we have class on a thursday and then we
won't have official class
for two
whole
weeks
two whole weeks now
we will have some project nights if you
want to partake
we'll have some cool stream team streams
if you want to partake uh but two weeks
off
and why we're doing that is because some
folks need a break
uh we're getting to the point right
we're getting to the point where
um
some folks need a little bit of a little
bit of a breather to catch up
right to decompress we put a lot on your
plate after thursday you can build full
stack web applications right you deserve
a break after that uh so some folks will
use it for a full
decompressing break
some folks will use it as a catch-up we
have a lot of folks that are really
grinding hard to catch up and join us
live they want to get here to start
building these full stack projects they
want to get live so they can join
project nights and things like that
so
ketchup crew is going to have two weeks
to get further caught up if they want to
use it
also there's a lot of personal stuff you
have to work on and i want to make sure
you have some time if you haven't
finished it up yet so
break's important catching up is
important but your professional stuff
that checklist stuff has to be done
these things need right those things
need
to be
finished and percolating and perfect so
that by the time you're ready for the
hunt
you already have some inbound interest
things are already showing up in
linkedin for you you're already showing
up in the search engine results right
you need to make sure your checklist is
done
it also might be a start for a lot of
you of your 100 hours project
right
some of you might use this time to start
fleshing out your project after thursday
you could build the whole thing you'll
have all the tools you need to build
that project right so some of you might
put that time into your 100 hours
project
and then some of you might start you
know scoping out the job market in your
area and building out your hit list it's
up to you how you want to spend these
two weeks i will have some light reading
slight slight like materials for you to
read and i expect you to have built an
app
right
so you'll take the code that we use
tonight and thursday and you're gonna
build an app of your own so there is
some slight work some small things but
it won't take you the full two weeks
so you can use summer break as a break
you can use it to catch up you can use
it to work on your professional stuff
you can use it for 100 hours you can use
it for hit list you can use it to build
an app so you have something solid on
your portfolio it's up to you what you
want to do
now
the other reason that a break comes into
play
personal
responsibility
uh when we get to this point you got to
make a decision
right you got to make a decision is this
something that you want
is this something that you're going to
to to go full on out for as we switch
gears into the building and job hunt
phase and so i want you to take these
two weeks
to search the depths of your soul and
see if this is what you truly want
right it's a it's a it's a it's a time
of reflection it's a time to to get your
your your loved ones on board and make
the decision you know what
i
am proud
of the things that i've been able to do
i'm proud of the things i can build i'm
proud of the work that i put in
and i want to continue
i want to put in the work that it's
going to take to get the job because i
said it before and i'll say it again
the getting the job part is the hardest
part of this entire process
and it has really nothing to do with
code
it has everything to do with you
getting life together
for a momentous push that could change
the rest of your life forever
and so for some folks this two week
break
is a chance to recharge
it's a chance to get family and loved
ones or their own life in line
right to say you know what this is
something that i want i know what's to
come is going to be difficult i need to
figure out ways i can support myself
whether that's getting healthy over
these two weeks living your best life
drinking healthy eating healthy
exercising getting your stretches in i'm
committing to get my stretches in my
hands are getting a little too tight
right
doing whatever you can during these two
weeks to just get ready for the push
that is to come so i like to give a
break at this point
right
right i like to give a break at this
point because i think it's a it's a good
time for you to recommit
right to recommit to have that time to
use however you want
and then come ready after these two
weeks
all right come ready after these two
cool
all righty
so feel free to use it how you want
break catch up person's 100 hours hit
list it's up to you
but i need you to make that decision
that says you know what i'm proud of the
things i've been able to do i trust
myself to do the next phase and i trust
myself to go into this hunt
ruthlessly to come out with the job
all right
so we'll have class today
we'll have class on thursday and then no
official gatherings will official
no class for those two weeks uh we will
have kind of stream team streaming
we'll have some project nights we won't
do office hours
so yeah we'll have some we'll have some
events and things planned but a real
break
cool
alrighty
let's keep pushing
back end baby
let's talk about the back end
so
we've been using our a lovely
lovely node js
lovely node.js
and we know that now that javascript
noticed a javascript runtime built on
the chrome v8 engine and and that's no
longer disrespectful right we understand
a lot of this terminology now we
understand that node is an environment
where we are running our javascript
and it's using this v8 engine which
comes with all these goodies that helps
us compile our code that does memory
management that does garbage collecting
that enables us to utilize cnc a plus
plus apis to do things with speed
right
it's not as disrespect disrespectful as
it used to be
right now we talk about the v8 engine as
an engine versus just a compiler because
it does come with all those other
goodies right right that comes with all
those other goodies right
now
we have this lovely idea of engine
versus compiler where we have the va
engines coming with all these goodies
that's giving us access to all this
stuff
and just like when we were running our
javascript in the browser and we had
access to the web apis now we're running
our javascript via node we get a bunch
of other
stuff
what is some of that stuff that we get
now that we're running javascript via
node and no longer just in the browser
chat
yeah we're getting access to our modules
we're getting access to and cnc plus
plus apis we're getting things like the
http module which gives us network
access we're getting access to the fs
module the file system module that gives
us access to the disk we get access to
millions of other packages via things
like mpm
and underneath the hood instead of it
being handed off the web apis we get
these lovely cnc plus plus apis that
make the code we're writing
fast
it works well we're using battle tested
stuff that's listening to these requests
that's going to enable us to generate
responses to get stiff stuff off the
disc to get stuff from a database to do
all this heavy lifting to have an event
loop to have all this good stuff it
comes because we're running our
javascript via node
can you explain running js via node
uh egg nation if you're new around these
parts do exclamation point 100 devs
we had six plus classes on that topic so
you can definitely go back and start at
the beginning of our node classes we go
super in-depth to that if we have any uh
new folks it's exclamation point 100
devs a lot of this stuff right now
typically that first hour is just raw
review for us we all buy into this idea
of space repetition and active recall
and so every class we're just getting
our active recall in so
if you're kind of lost on some of these
beginning topics definitely go back and
watch our past classes they are on
youtube and as vods here on twitch as
well
cool
all right we started off by
we started off by building very simple
node servers that were using these core
modules the http module the fs module
right these things that are just
raw there there are ways to to build and
communicate on the server side
but it's not pretty
we had to do everything manually we had
to write all these routes manually we we
had to write all these things that just
look uh look a mess and really aren't
that easy to read
yes these a disrespectful code right
and so we asked ourselves how could we
clean this up how could we not be stuck
coding everything manually to not just
be using these raw http methods what if
there was something that could give us
access to a myriad of http methods that
could give us access to a simple
framework that we could use and that was
express
right
express makes that
server that creation
easier because it's handling a lot of
the heavy lifting for us and giving us
simple plain easy to use language to do
the things we want to do
and at first express can seem a little
odd but we realized that we're just
doing the things that we said we wanted
to do
when i said i wanted to send an html
file it was send file
when i wanted to
send some json it was just json tonight
when i want to render some ejs into html
it's literally just render so the
ability here is that we're able to use
this express to to
to abstract all these heavy things away
and give us a simple easy to use
language to do the things that we want
to do
cool
and so we saw this idea of being a fast
unopinionated minimalist web framework
with a myriad of http utility methods
we're like that's disrespectful what the
heck does that mean well we understand
that fast
right
right we understand that fast means it's
fast unopinionated what does that mean
chat what is why is express
unopinionated what does that mean
yeah it doesn't care what you bring to
the table you can use anything you want
it's just going to do one thing and one
thing really well and that's what we
mean by minimalists it is a minimalist
web framework it's going to help us
handle
that request and response that's all it
cares about you can bring anything else
you want to use with it it doesn't have
a way that you have to use it it's very
flexible it's unopinionated and it's
minimalist it really only focuses on one
thing and that's building your api
doesn't want to do anything else other
right than building your api and so it
comes with a bunch of methods that
enable us to listen to requests to
generate responses and it comes with a
bunch of middleware to make our lives
easier what the heck is middleware
what's what's our making the nerd shake
definition of middleware
yeah anything that kind of really exists
between the requests
and the response and we're going to see
some stuff that we used to use that's
even kind of getting baked into express
now too
so yeah it's it's it's it's this
wonderful tool
that enables you to build out your api
and gets out the way and that's why it's
so popular when you're building full
stack web applications with node
cool
but before we can jump into using
express
we want to spend some time but first
but first i want to spend some time
talking about how does the internet work
and then once we've had a chance to talk
about how the internet works we're going
to dive into some new topics tonight
we're going to dive into things like
mongodb we're going to dive into things
like ejs and we're going to see how it
all relates to building beautiful web
applications but that we're getting
ahead of ourselves here let's jump into
this idea of how does the internet
work
all right
so
on the internet we have two kinds of
devices
we have client-side devices
and we have server side devices
both the client
and the server are both
what
client and server are both what chat
they're both computers exactly both the
client and the server are both computers
now
when we are
creating our original code right when
we're running our code locally
the confusing thing
right the confusing thing
is that when we're first starting out
our client and our server are both what
what makes this kind of confusing at
first
yeah they're they're both on the same
machine right both the client is running
on our local machine and our server is
running on our local machine but what
did we do differently in the past couple
of classes that changed that so that the
server wasn't on our local machine what
did we do
yeah we hosted it and put it on heroku
we literally took our server code and
put it
on someone else's computer
the cloud
is what
chat what is the cloud
i always people always respond leon we
put it on the cloud we put on the cloud
what's the cloud
yeah it's just somebody else's computer
the cloud is just somebody else's
computer right so
we eventually
will take our server side code
and
put it on somebody else's computer
right that's going to run the code that
we told it to run
and
most of the time when our clients are
making requests to a server right our
clients are using the browser
and one of the most common things
they'll do in the browser
is type in a url
and when they type in a url and hit
enter
what did the users do
from their client-side device
what did they make
a humble
request
exactly
our users on the client side maybe they
were on their mobile phone their desktop
their tablet they typed in a url they
hit enter they made a request
and that request left our client-side
device
and found its way to the server
now
once that request made it to the server
there was some code
running on that server that could hear
that request
what do we call that code that is
running on the server that can hear that
request
yeah we're gonna call that our api
and our api is gonna be coded to handle
a series of different kinds of requests
what types of requests
is our api gonna be set up to hear
or to listen for
yeah it's gonna hear those sweet sweet
sweet quad requests it's gonna be set up
to hear
our gets
our posts
our puts
and our
deletes
cool
now
get post put and delete
are
terms that come from what where do we
get these get the posts the puts and
deletes we like to call
those are two fans we like to call them
crud create read update delete but where
do these like actual fancy terms come
from
yeah it comes from http
because
the thing
that actually enables us to make these
requests
to to listen and receive these responses
we sit on the shoulders of some giants
and that technology that enables us to
make requests and receive those
responses
is the hypertext transfer
protocol
and these gets post puts and deletes are
methods
that http understands
right the get the post to put the leads
are the methods that come with http
and when we built out our api
we could have written some raw code that
listens for those http requests we could
get closer down to the raw node but we
decided to use something else that helps
us manage all this http request response
that gets the post the puts the deletes
what are we using that helps handle all
that stuff for us
yeah express
express makes dealing with this
so much easier it gives us a bunch of
methods that we can use that enable us
to listen for the gets the posts the
puts the deletes and handle those
responses we want to send an html file
we just say send file we want to send
some json we just say json we say we
want to render some ejs to spit out html
we just say render
what
that's the coolest stuff ever
that is the coolest thing ever that i
don't even have to
understand
i don't have to understand anything
about this
i don't need to understand how the http
method is working i don't need to
understand anything about tcp i don't
need to understand anything about ip i
don't even even have to understand like
how these get post puts the leads are
doing the thing
express
what all that away from me
express what's all that away from me
yeah
it abstracts all that stuff away from me
and just says hey leon what's up what do
you want to do today and i'm like
express
we're gonna do the same thing we do
every day try
and take over the world or you know
build some full stack web applications
it's beautiful
that's exciting
like to me this is like the dopest stuff
ever that i can just write
get post put delete
my server understands it and then i just
get the focus
on what i want to have happen
right so we we had this original request
that came over they typed in
a url
they hit enter
that made a get request
we have some code running on our server
called our api
and it's set up to hear
that get request
right and when it hears that get request
we get to say
what
happens
all right when when when our server
hears that get request when somebody
typed in the url and hit enter
right
our api that we wrote heard that request
and we get
to decide
what happens when we hear that get
request
and tonight we're going to do some extra
stuff that we didn't do last week last
week when we heard that request we
responded with some json
but tonight
when we hear that get request
what are we doing
i kind of just teased a little bit
tonight when we hear that get request
we're doing something a little bit
different
yeah
uh-huh a little bit different
we're going to go to a database to get
our data
instead of that data being an object
right instead of that data being an
object that's already on our server side
when we hear that get request
we're going to go take a trip
to our database
and we're going to get that data
and once we have that
data we're going to plug that data
into a template
and that template is going to spit out
what
that template is going to spit out what
yeah
that template is going to spit out some
delicious
html
and then that html
is what we're going to respond with
html is what we're going to respond with
right
and so we get control
of what happens when we hear those
requests and tonight we're taking it to
the next level and instead of having
data that's hard coded as an object
server side
right
we're going to go to the database
we're going to go to the database we're
going to get that data and we're going
to respond with it
let me show you what we're going to
build
tonight i have a live version
and i have a uh
like a local version because
i'm sure we're gonna tank the hosted
version as soon as i show it don't be a
don't be a crumb bum and like
try and tank it
i have this rap names
100devs.heroku app that's live
and you can see from the last cohort
people popped off right you can see all
these different rappers with their birth
names uh here
and
uh we can upvote the name and we can
delete it if we want to
right
and so
what i want you to do is to see that
we're going to build something cool but
i made a simpler version here that's
local
because i know that you're going to it's
going to get wrecked that's okay it's
going to come down there's too many of
us that's fine i'm not paying for my
heroku instance so it's just going to
pop off the internet uh but here's my
local version and so the cool thing here
is i can
add rappers
i can delete rappers sorry little nos x
boom so that that wrapper is gone
right
i can
eventually upvote my rappers which we'll
we'll see more
uh on
on thursday
we started deleting and i can also add
so let's let's add back little nos x
beautiful
i forgot there
there we go
boom
and what i want to ask you
what i want to ask you
is
did i know
all the rappers
people were going to submit
like was there a way
for me to like
hard code how many rappers were gonna
show up
no
so there's a lot of little pieces that
are happening here that we have to
introduce tonight
right
there's there's a lot of the things we
have to introduce tonight
one
i need a
template that i can plug my wrappers
into
so that i
i'm not hard coding my html right
there's no way for me to have known the
wrappers that you're gonna that you were
going to submit so instead of having a
having a hard-coded html file
right instead of having a hard-coded
html file i need a template that we can
plug data into think of it like a fancy
mad libs have you ever played mad libs
growing up it's like a
it's a sheet of paper that has a story
but you get to fill in the blanks that's
what we're going to use we're going to
use our ejs files as templates that we
can plug
data into
the other thing is
instead of
instead of having to
instead of having to keep track of like
a messy
object on our server side
we are going to use
right we are going to use
our database
and so you can see here
each wrapper that i added
has a specific spot
in my database
right so whenever i add something
i can see that object
right
and i can keep track of it and so
instead of having like this messy
json object on my server each wrapper
gets its own document in my database and
i can go and get all these documents i
can update them i can delete them i can
do whatever the heck that i want
right
to these objects
cool
don't pay attention to the old rap app
that was my honeypot i just wanted
everybody's ip address so all the people
that are acting a fool i'm just going to
ban them from discord based on their ip
address so don't worry you're good it
was a honeypot we got them they couldn't
help themselves we're good
hope they use the vpn
appreciate you thank you so much thank
you for participating in my grand
experiment
uh that's what i'll be using my break
time to do you got got
[Laughter]
so we'll just leave that running for
them they can keep doing their the
little their little things i'm not even
going to show it let's just uh close it
for this evening it was just there to
get them they got got
we're good
peace
hope you enjoyed discord hope you
enjoyed this community have a good rest
of your rest of your life
the whiteboard's still up for a reason
let's think about this
all right
right
i
on the client side
right
i
was able to
type in a url
hit enter
all right
that request made it to my server
made it to my
server there is some code
running
on my server
right there is some code running on my
server that heard the request
that heard the request
right
and when i heard this request
right when i heard that request
what did i do
i decided to respond
but to respond
right
i decided to respond
and the way that i responded
was by going to the database
right by going to the database
right
by going to the database
i got
all of the wrappers
right
i got all the wrappers
and then i used that data
to plug
into
my ejs file which we haven't really
talked about yet it's just a template
right
to plug into my template and then that
template spit out
html and i respond it with that html
and that html
right
that html came all the way back to the
client-side device
right came all the way back to the
client-side device and that's what they
saw so
we're building
we're building on this idea
right we're building on this idea
that we can
right that we can
type in a url
hit enter
when we hit enter
when we hit enter that request leaves
the client side
makes it all the way to the server the
server is set up to hear that request
and when it hears that request
right
we hear that request
right when we hear that request
we get to control what happens
and as we start to progress we're going
to be doing more and more
stuff
cool
now
we did the reading before
we also have to do tonight the creating
right we have to do the creating
all right we got to do the creating
so here we saw that when we enter in a
form
we were able to create
something that happened
so
when we come back from break
when we come back from break we're going
to talk through the creating
we're going to [__] through the deleting
and then we're going to start adding the
little things that we need to understand
tonight to be able to do
this process so
lots of fun stuff to get to tonight
we're going to have the ability to
create we're going to have the ability
to read we're going to have the ability
to delete and we're gonna see the tools
that we need for that to be able to
work
cool
alrighty folks
let's go ahead and take our five minute
break
i'm gonna go ahead and put that on the
clock here
there's no files that you need for
tonight we're just kind of looking
through some stuff that we're sharing
you have the slides if you need them
but five minutes on the clock when we
get back folks we're going to talk about
that creating we're gonna talk about the
deleting we're gonna see how a project
like this comes together and by the end
of tonight you'll be able to build any
app that you want this blows my mind
this is like the best stuff ever alright
folks
enjoy your break i will see you in five
minutes
alrighty uh so i i know some folks
i joke around a lot if you haven't
gotten that by now i i joke a lot on
stream i know some jokes they're hard to
understand but like i joke a lot i'm not
banning anyone from being reckless in
any of the stuff that i that i share
right
uh it i i
people people really be like send me a
message like how can you ban people
because come on now i'm not to ban
somebody over that right i was a 12 year
old little [__] back in the day too
right like if you're still in like your
12 year old little [__] phase that's
okay that's on me to design systems so
that i don't get got right it's
disappointing that you're a little [__]
but
like i understand how the internet works
i know that there are folks that are
little shits out there i was a little
[__] back in the day so if that's where
you're at in life
that's okay
i'm not gonna ban you over it
i just think you're a little [__] right
like come on we were there i was there
you're there now it's okay it's cool
right but i understand how the internet
works
and i'm not gonna ban anybody over
deleting something on my heroku app
i just got to do better things to stop
that from happening and so
one of the things i could have done
and we'll use this as a lovely little
segue
is when you are using [__] atlas
you can actually
block ip addresses right i could have
limited it to just my ip address
or i could have white listed it right
and so what it had was a white listed ip
address so it means anyone's iep address
could have been accessing
that
that instance of the mongodb database
now the one i'll be sharing for the rest
of the class
it's whitelisted and targeted to only my
ip address so even if you have
access to the database even if you have
the ability to edit stuff uh you
shouldn't be able to do anything because
it's tied to my ip address
right so
there are ways that we can prevent this
stuff in the future but i'm not banning
anybody come on folks that's that's just
me joshing around
and so it we'll see that a little bit
later tonight
cool
everybody's like still ban them leon
just ban them
no no i want you to i want you to click
around i want you to play with stuff i
want you i want you to break stuff right
like i want you to i want you to have
fun with it right um just don't just
don't be a little butt that's all
it's how we learn it's a part of
learning right cool all right
so
we talked a little bit about let's go
back to the slides real quick uh we
talked a little bit how the internet
works we talked about that get request
right but there's so many other things
that are happening that we need to be
able to handle for our applications to
work and so tonight
we're going to build out our api
so that any client can talk to our
server
right
and when they talk to our server we're
going to write our api to do a bunch of
different things as a response
so far right so far we have seen
a
file response with send file we've seen
a json response and tonight we're also
going to see a render of html that gets
responded with
cool
now
the four things that we're setting up to
do are our crud
request our creating our reading our
updating our deleting
and to be able to do
the getting the posting and the deleting
that we want to do tonight we need to
add two more things into our repertoire
that first thing is mongodb
and then the second thing is e j s it's
in the game all right so
mongodb is a database
and the beautiful thing about mongodb is
that if you have ever
used objects
right if you have ever used objects
right
if you've ever used objects you can use
mongodb
that's it if you have used objects you
can use mongodb
mongodb has
two
really important terms
they have collections
and
documents
a collection
is just a group of documents
and a document
is just an object
that's all it is
so here we have a collection
and our collection is made up of
individual documents
and our individual documents are just
objects
now
if we are talking about our
lovely
rapper's api
right we're talking about our lovely
wrappers api
what
type of collection are we going to see
so if we're thinking through the data
that we need to collect what is our
collection going to be called
look at our app
what does our app do
it keeps track of rappers names so what
do we think our collection and mongodb
is going to be called yeah rappers we're
going to have a collection
of
rappers
great so we're gonna have a collection
of rappers
rappers like and each
document
inside of wrappers
is going to be one what each document
inside of our wrapper collection
or a rapper's collection is gonna be one
what
one rapper exactly one rapper
so this one might be
uh chance the rapper please say the
rapper
this one might be 21 savage this one
might be polo g
right
but that's it
mongodb is a collection
of documents where the documents are
just objects
right so each one of these objects
is something that we can use that we can
consume that we can utilize in our app
location and we can actually see it when
we look at our [__] atlas account look
here's my collection of wrappers
and you can see chance the wrapper is
one object polo g is another object
little nos x is another object right and
21 savage as another object
so a lot of folks say
um a lot of folks say leon why
why mongodb
right why mongodb
why why do you start with mongodb why
not sql
one
if you know how to use objects trust me
you know how to use mongodb
right it's super easy if you know how to
use objects you can work with the data
that's coming in and out of the mongodb
right the other thing
is that
when you are using it
you do not need
you do not need a querying language like
you don't have to use you have to learn
another language
to be able to use what's happening
inside of your database
if i want all of the documents out of
this collection
i simply just say
bind
that's it
just find and it will find all the
documents in this collection
if i want to
add a wrapper to this collection like if
i want to
add a document
it's simply
insert
one
if i want to delete a document
it is simply
delete
one
so no querying language to learn
it's plain english for what you want to
do
in relation to
your
database
so if it's made of just objects which we
should feel comfortable with
if it has a very easy to use language
you don't learn a whole other querying
language on top of it that makes it a
great place to start
with understanding how to build a full
stack web application right because
when you're building this full stack web
application uh you are
using stuff that kind of already sounds
familiar or isn't too wild to understand
and then the last thing that i really
enjoy
is that we have [__] atlas i asked you
all to create a [__] atlas account and
what this does instead of having to have
like your database locally
we are using somebody else's computer to
host our database and this is really
important because
we all want to work with each other
right we're eventually going to work
in groups
i eventually want to be able to share my
code with you
right and the cool thing about [__]
atlas is that they're handling hosting
that database setting up that database
and all i have to do is connect to it
and i can do all the stuff i need to do
so mongodb gives us a lot of flexibility
it gives us the ability to work with
objects that we already feel comfortable
with a plain simple language to interact
with the database and then we also have
this phenomenal free service where we
can host our database and be able to
work in teams be able to share code and
it all just works so that's why i start
with mongodb we will see some sql later
on in program this is why it's a good
place to start here though
cool
so we already talked about our wrappers
here we know that we have a collection
of wrappers and each document right each
document that goes into our collection
will represent one
wrapper
cool we're going to see this in way more
detail a little bit i just want to put
that into your brain
if you haven't already seen mangadv if
you haven't already seen ejs you
probably didn't do the what
the homework
and so you're gonna see that i'm
purposely i am purposely using examples
and similar enough code to what was
covered in the reading so that you're
not transit so you're not transitioning
like
without having seen this stuff right so
please
you got to do the homework especially as
when we come back from break if you're
not doing the homework it's going to be
too much while you're sitting in class
to be able to suck it all in
right so make sure that you are putting
in that effort to get through you don't
even have to like really rock start you
don't have to really 100 devs it right
you can just get through it that way
it's not too much it's not the first
time you're hearing about documents and
collections it's not the first time
you're hearing about
ejs this is a little bit of a little bit
of review a little bit of review
cool
next
next we have to talk about e j s
now remember
when we're looking at this code here
we're looking at this site
right when i'm looking at this site
i'm looking at this site
each one of these
is an li
right
each one of these is an is an li
did i hard code four lis into my html so
that i could respond
no
i had a template
and what i was able to do
what i was able to do was plug data into
that template
that spit out the html that contained
four lis
but my html was not hard-coded it was a
template where i was able to plug data
in
and then spit out html that i then
responded with so when we look at this
right here
what we're actually looking at is some
ejs so here's our ejs
where you're going to notice about ejs
and the reason why i start with ejs
is because this egs kind of looks a lot
like what
does this replace our normal html file
it does
it looks like a lot of html
with a little bit of javascript
sprinkled in it has its own syntax like
things are a little different like we
have like this this this uh
this carrot parentheses type syntax but
what it is is just regular html
with a little bit of programmatic stuff
thrown in
and so it's a really good transition
right it's a good transition from just
regular html
right to being able to have a templating
language right
that we can plug stuff in
and once we get a little bit further in
we can use other things that make
this template a little bit easier to do
i use things like pug and stuff like
that
but to start off with
definitely start with ejs right i have a
lot of students that run into other
templating languages and the problem
they run into
is it's too different than the html
they're comfortable with with ejs this
is just html with some stuff plugged in
right and so we start here so you can
build applications and eventually we'll
get to the point where our front end or
our views are handled by other things
maybe some react maybe some other things
but starting with ejs has always been
the smoothest pass for my for my my
students cool
so what you're seeing here
is i have a for loop
and what is this for loop creating
it's creating lies yes so
what i am going to do
is i am going to take my data and i am
going to plug it
into this ejs template
with the goal
that this ejs template spits out what
what is this egs spit out at the end
html so my goal is to take some data
plug it into this template
and have it spit out an html file
and so what we're going to see
is that i have this info
info is representing my data the data
that i got from the database
if i look at my database
how many documents are there
there are four documents
so how many times
do you think
this for loop is going to run
how many lis is it going to create
yeah this forward is going to run four
times if there were four documents
this is going to run
four
times
and each time it runs
it's going to build an li
that has
a span holding their stage name
a span holding their birth name
and a span holding a delete
keyword or word
right so what this template is able to
do it's able to see oh
there were four bits of data
let's build four allies
that each have a stage name a birth name
and a delete
and so this ejs runs right this ejs runs
and it's building out an html file and
when it is done
it
sends that html file back to our user
right so this enables us to not have to
have stuff
hard coded anymore we can do stuff
dynamically we can build stuff based on
the data that we have in our database
and not be required to just have
hard-coded html anymore
now
one question that always comes up is
leon isn't this violating separation of
concerns right aren't you introducing
like
javascript no
this isn't javascript
it just looks like javascript to make
your life easier
what is the end result of this ejs
what does it spit out what is the end
result of this file running
html
exactly we're still getting html at the
end of the day this html could link to
other javascript but this in itself is
not actually javascript this is just a
combination of html
and something that looks like javascript
to make our lives easier if you know
javascript and you know html you can
write ejs and that's why i start with it
right so there are some little bits of
syntax that we're gonna have to learn
you're gonna have to learn that oh when
you are doing blocks of code those
blocks of code uh go in between the
carrot and uh the modulus or parentheses
right when you are plugging in variables
it's a little bit different with the
equal sign right so there are some
little bits of syntax that we're going
to have to learn
to write good ejs
but what are we not doing tonight what
are we here for we're here to paint a
what
we're here to paint a lovely picture
we're not really cared about the details
we're not really we're not really
worried about like how ejs is doing this
how we're generating the html what the
syntax would be right
we're just trying to get the big picture
of how all this can come together and
then exactly we can be baddies and write
bad code right we're here to paint the
picture so
to paint this picture we need to
understand that we're going to store our
data in a [__] database and a [__]
database is just a collection of objects
we call those collections collections
and we call the objects documents for
each bit of data or in this case each
one of our wrappers we're going to have
an individual document for each one of
those wrappers
and then the thing is eventually we want
to be able to show all the wrappers to
our users
right and if we want to show all the
wrappers to our users we're going to
need a template that we can plug that
data into
right that we can plug that data into
that spits out html so we can respond
with that html
what's the difference between ejs and a
script tag good question let me show you
real quick we can look at some code real
quick
um
views ejs
here's our ejs right it looks like
regular html we have some special syntax
but down here is a script tag
just like normal nothing changes when
you're using ejs other than when you
want to plug stuff into your html
right when you want to plug in stuff you
got to use this little bit different
syntax you want to plug in like you want
to pull out like variables you got to do
this a little bit different syntax right
it's the exact same thing as html with a
little bit of different syntax mixed in
but all your other stuff is the same
like if i want to do a link to a
javascript file boom it's still the same
script tag
cool
all right
talk about manga we talked about ejs
let's talk about the big picture
right let's talk about the big picture
here
cool
so
let's use this application as our
example
here you can see i just refreshed the
page
when i refreshed the page
what type of requests did i make
i made a get request so let's talk about
it
let's talk about that get request i just
made in the browser i hit refresh
that made a request from my client side
to my server
and my server had some code
set up to hear that request
what type of request was it first
it was a get request by refreshing the
page or
typing in the url and hitting enter
we made a get request
now
what code was running on our server that
could hear that request
our api exactly so here's our api code
our api code was set up to hear that get
request
and what route was that request made
from
it was just my localhost 2121
what route was i on when i made that
request when i hit that refresh or i hit
that enter
yeah i was on the root route and we
represent the root with that lovely
forward
flash
great now
what i needed to be able to do like if
we look at this application
is i needed to be able to respond
with some html that had all the entered
wrappers
what i what i needed to see is that it's
not magic
right we made a request from our
client-side device
that request made it to our server
right
our server had our api code on it that
heard that get request
and what did we need to do when we heard
that get request
where is our data stored right now it's
no longer a json file where did it have
to go and get the data that we were
going to use
yeah
so the very first thing
our get request was code it to do
right the very first thing our get
request was code it to do
was to go
to the [__] database
and find
all the documents
in our wrappers collection
once it once it went
and got all of the data each individual
wrapper is a document in our wrappers
collection right once it got all of that
data
where did it hand that data off to
yeah it handed that off to our template
to the ejs right it took all this data
and handed it off to the ejs
now our ejs
spit out what
it spit out what what did our ejs spit
out
it spit out html exactly
this ejs spit out some html
and once we had that html
once we had that html what did we do
with it
we responded exactly we responded with
that html
and that's why we were able to see
all these different wrappers
right inside of my application
we made a request to a server
the server heard that request
it went into our [__] database grabbed
all the wrappers from our [__] database
put that into our ejs template
the ejs template
spit out some html and we responded with
that html
it's really wild how fast all this works
i completely agree
um some folks said what is views well
right now all of our code is kind of all
mixed together
right now our server.js file holds our
api
everything that set up our server right
it holds a lot of stuff
right holds a lot of stuff
eventually we're going to introduce an
architecture similar to like how we had
separation of concerns where we had html
separate from our css separate from our
javascript eventually we're going to
separate out our concerns on the back
end as well we're going to use something
exactly called mvc or model view
controller
all the stuff that we write to talk to
the database that's going to be handled
by our model
all the stuff that we're going to write
that handles like the the templates the
ejs like with the user eventually is
going to see
will be our views and kind of like the
middle person in between that's like
listening to the request and figuring
out how to get those responses that'll
be our controller so we're going to get
to that in a little bit in the future
where we'll have that architecture it's
not something we need to worry about
right now but you're going to start
seeing me put all my ejs files in a
views folder so that we can start
getting used to that idea that our code
is going to be in separate places that
it all comes together so
all of the things that my users will
eventually see like all my ejs templates
they're going to be in a folder called
my views folder that's where that's
coming from
cool
now
some folks are asking what the heck is
public right some folks are asking what
the heck is public and what i got to ask
you is let's look at this html file real
quick this template this ejs template
spits out html what's at the beginning
what's at the beginning of this template
and at the end of this template what do
these represent
they're asking for some client-side
javascript they're links to files
there are links to files right
and so the cool thing remember i
promised you last week
to show you one of my favorite lines of
code of all time
one of my favorite lines of code of all
time you ready for this you ready for
this i'm going to show you
here it is
app.use express
static
public
what this line of code is doing
is saying any
file
that you put in the public folder like
the public folders really i have a
public folder right here
my js files in here my css files in here
any file i put in this public folder
right any file put in this public folder
will just be served up by this line
right here
i don't need to create a route for it i
don't need to do an app.get for it
anything i put in that public folder
that's just like a regular static file
any of my html or any any from anywhere
in my application can request those
static files and it just serves them
right on up
right mind blown right it's the beauty
of express it's top 10 favorite lines of
code it just blows my mind that like
somebody thought through to do that to
make our lives so easier especially when
we saw how hard it was to hard code all
those things when we were writing our
node server from scratch every js file
every css file had to have a route we
had to handle we had to tell what file
to send we had to do all that heavy work
that this one line of code just
eradicates and it works folks get this
it works with images too
yeah
a lot of folks are like leon how do we
do images it works with images too
yeah baby exactly
cool
so any static files that you have can be
served up by that public so the
interesting thing is we responded with
that html file and then that html file
made two more requests
it made a request to our server for our
css file
js file
and it wasn't necessarily our api that
had to handle that it was just express
that handled it because it was already
in our public folder it knew what to do
so we can put anything into our public
folder we can get our main.js we can put
our css we can put our fonts or images
everything can go in that public folder
all of our static files and just get it
served up
cool
now
we we did a big hop skip and a jump here
right
everybody let's take a collective deep
breath one more time
one more
all right now
we don't need to know
how all these pieces work underneath the
hood
we just need to understand
how they're being connected so i'm going
to walk through what we just did
and then i'm going to show you the code
and i i need you to to be okay
when i show you the code i don't need
you to understand i don't even under
like i i don't i don't type this [__]
out
i can't i can't tell you how much i have
templates that i use for this that i
copy and paste from my passcode that
i've written right like you have to
understand that you don't need to have
this memorized
sorry once again
you don't have to have this memorized
right
you can just
you can start playing with these lego
blocks and build some amazing things
all right so
what we have here is we went to our
application
i refreshed the page or let's say i
typed in localhost 2021 and i hit enter
right
i hit enter
all right
when i hit enter
what type of request did i make
i made a get request all right
hit enter made a get request to my
server
what code is running on my server that
heard that get request
the api exactly
um since i was on localhost 2121
and i hit enter there
what is the route for my get request
yes it is that lovely root route that
forward slash
so
there was some code tied to that to that
route it heard that request and then it
i wrote out what i wanted to have happen
when i heard that request just like a
click event when i heard the click i
wanted to do x y and z
when i heard this get request on the
root route i wanted to do a few things
the first thing i wanted to do
was go to the database
and get all my wrappers out of the
wrappers collection i wanted to grab
each document
from that collection
and once i had all that data
all right once you have all that data
i want it to send it where
where do i want to send all those all
those documents to where i want to send
them to
yeah
i wanted to send them to my
ejs beautiful
once i sent it to my ejs i was able to
plug in all that data to the ejs
template and what did that ejs template
spit out
it spit out an html file
and
once it spit out that html file
what did i do with it
what did i do with that html file
i responded with that html file and we
were able to see what we see here in our
application
great
now
once this html file
was rendered by the client
what else happened
hey hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
let's look at this look let's look at
this right let's look
what is this letting me look at current
wrappers what do i know about current
wrappers
that's css right it's red so there's
probably some css that it needed
and i saw before that i can like click
on these things
and stuff happens
so what's the only thing that can hear
client-side clicks
our client-side javascript so when i
sent my html
i did not send css i did not send
javascript it's only once this was
rendered in the browser that it made
those requests
and the cool thing is
when we're using express
and those get requests get made for the
css and the js
do i need something as part of my api
that's listening
do i need anything that's part of my api
is listening for the css request or the
or the js requests
not really not that not the api i'm
writing the cool thing is that since i'm
using express
if it's in the public folder
express will handle those static files
for me
i don't need to do anything else other
than put it in the public folder and it
will just work as long as i have this
gorgeous line of code on line 19.
all this line of code is saying is hey
any request for regular files like html
sorry regular files like css or
javascript or images or fonts as long as
they're in your legitimate public folder
like i have a public folder here that's
like a folder in this code base as long
as it's there
it'll serve it on up
does it always need to be line 19 no
that's a good question not a lot of this
stuff it doesn't really matter too much
the order um we're gonna see some things
need to like call things
but remember we're still technically
writing javascript and javascript
technically still has stuff called
hoisting and so scoping in a big big
file like this is weird we have to worry
about that it doesn't always have to be
in line 19. you're going to you're going
to swap out do things differently um
throughout the throughout the days
thank you for the posture check let's
get into this
all right
get up set up straight
is the process the same even if we don't
use express
yes any static files can use the public
folder it's not dependent on your view
engine if we look at this line of code
right here
we're saying that our view engine is
what
ejs this is literally the line that says
we're using ejs it could be any other
templating language that we want there's
ones that are there's so many different
ones pug whatever you want to call it
right there's so many out there we're
just telling it here that we're going to
be using ejs so that it knows hey we're
going to be using ejs to generate our
html
cool
so we walked through that whole process
where we made a request
to the server
our api had that code that heard it that
api then went to the database it got all
the information from the database it
sent all that information to the ejs the
ejs spit out some html
and then it responded with that html
back to the browser
let's see the code that's actually
handling this you ready all right
look at the code
here it is
all right
we've already seen this part
the app.get on the root route
you've already seen that
that's easy
when we hear that request
this is what we're doing
remember
everything that goes inside of here is
what we are doing this is just the
lovely callback this is exactly
like
a click event
right exactly like a click event you
should feel comfortable with this
now inside the click event we're going
to tell it to do some stuff
and treat it like it's readable because
it is
here's what we're going to do
we're going to go to our database
we're gonna find
the wrappers collection
all
the documents
in the collection
and we're gonna turn it into an array
let's get rid of this for now we're just
gonna we're just gonna
we're gonna eat this for right now
and we're going to turn it into an array
let's think about this for a second we
know we heard the get request we had to
go to the database
this is it
find the wrappers collection
find every document
inside of that collection if we look at
our collection
here are all the documents
all the documents are really just what
all of our documents are really just
what
objects
so if we're getting all these objects
back from the database
what's the only data structure that
we've seen so far
that can hold a bunch of objects
an array
so we tell it hey
put all these objects in an array
that's all it's saying i i know it can
look a little scary but it's so readable
it said go to the database
it said find the wrappers collection
find all the documents inside that
collection
and put them
into an array
so now
i have this big old array
right
a big old array
that is holding
all of the objects from my database
and
is my database like on my machine
it had to make a request
to the database right
and so we're used to making requests and
getting what back like at like a really
high level we were dealing with stuff in
the browser that we called what
promises
so we could kind of just like we can
kind of just carry that knowledge here
right this whole thing
is we'll just say for now a promise
right
that gives us an array of objects
and that means that data is holding our
what what is data holding
the result yeah
it's holding that array
it's holding all those objects we know
that the then fires
after we get that request that response
right the result right
so data is holding
our array of wrappers
right we could we could console log this
let's console log it just so we can see
cool let's try this i'm going to restart
my server
cool
connect to my database let's go ahead
and refresh the page
all right i refresh the page
and let's look when i when i console
logged look what i console logged
what is that chat
what did i just console.log
it's an array of objects
so
we can see
that data
really is holding
the response from our database right
data really is an array of objects that
came from the database
and what are we going to do with that
array of objects
what are we going to do with all that
data
we're going to do with all that data
we're going to do it all that data we
online what are you going to do without
the baby oh i got to have a new place
we're going to do with all that data
what are you going to do with all that
data
we're going to do with all that data
what are you going to do with all that
data hey all right
we're going to put it into our ejs
now
please
come on
give me two seconds of focus
two seconds of focus
two seconds of focus get come here get
in i need you for a second you were on
your phone i need to put your phone down
and come back for a second
all right
here's you're here all right i see you
easy thank you for coming back all right
funny because i know you we've been
together for how many weeks now come on
now all right you're with me
when i
responded
in last week
and i wanted to send a file
it was response what
response what to send a file
response send file beautiful
when i wanted to send json
it was response what
response json
if
i want to render
some html
out of my ejs template
what do you think the term's going to be
i want to render some html
out of
my template
thank you
it's going to be render right
we've seen this already we've seen
response.send file we saw response.json
[Music]
but now we have
response.render so think of it as two
steps
what do you think this side is going to
do
what what size what is this going to do
some people like leon i did the homework
i know that's the point that you're
coming here prepared that you're seeing
it again you're asking questions it's
solidifying in your mind
it's our space repetition or active
recall
yes
it's rendering our html
it's spitting out our html this whole
right hand side here what it does
is it spits out our html
i had one thing to do and i spelt it
wrong
right
it rendered out an html file and then
what the heck did we do at that respon
what the heck did we do with that html
file
we responded
we
responded
we responded we responded with that html
file
come on now
i know you're getting this a little bit
i know you're getting this a little i
know i know so i see the gears
taking a little while but we're getting
there we're getting there because once
you understand just this look a little
bit of code it's just a little bit it's
just a little bit of code it's just a
little bit there's a little bit
but once you know
how to use this bit of code
you can build whatever you want
you now can go get any data from a
database
plug it into some ejs and return some
html
like that blows my mind
right
blows my mind that you can do it right
now
are there a little bit of extras we have
to talk about yes we have to talk about
like what's happening in this ejs file
which we're gonna get to in a second
but it's just a series of requests
and responses that is all we're doing
we're requesting stuff and we're
responding with stuff
and now the stuff that's happening
between the requests and the response is
getting a little bit more complex
it's getting a little bit more full
stacky but you're just doing the same
thing we were doing last week it's just
we're doing a little bit of extra stuff
in between that request and that
response
so render is a method of the response
object yes
just like send file was just like json
was it's the beauty of using respec
respect it's the beauty of using express
i can just say render and express knows
everything needs to happen to render my
html for me i can just say
send file and it knows everything that i
need to do to send a file i can say
json knows everything to do the response
for to get json right at least the
beauty of using express to do this for
us express handles all of that all right
let me show you one thing i'm gonna take
a break one thing we're gonna take a
break all right
we said that data is holding our what
data is holding our what
our array yes
it's an array of objects we we console
logged it look look look look we console
logged it here we go
we console logged it
here are all the objects
right all the objects
all the objects that were in that array
all these objects that came from our
database
right
now
what name
what name did i give to that array
take a look at this code what name am i
giving to this array
it's stored in data but i've given it a
different name
you ready take a look
info
here is an object
here's an object
the name or the property is called info
and the value is data which is our array
of objects right we have an array of
objects that's here
called data
but i've given it a name of info
why
well
ejs is expecting me to pass in my data
and what format
take a look
what am i passing into my ejs
yeah it's expecting an object
so that's what i'm giving it i'm giving
it an object
and i'm giving that object the property
of info
right i'm getting the property of info
and i am
passing that array in with the name
of info
so when i look in my ejs
when i look in my egs and i see the word
info
what is it really
wherever i see info it is really my what
is really what
it is data or my array of
objects or my array of objects that have
the wrapper data inside so wherever i
see info
inside of index.ejs
it is my array of objects so let's take
a look at the ejs file
and so my views folder is an index.ejs
let's take a look at this loop and then
we're going to take a break
what am i looping through here chat
what am i looping through here
i am looping through info
which is my array of objects
so when i do
info dot info square brackets i
the very first time that this loop runs
info i
is really info
zero
and if i look
if i look
the first object here it is
info 0 would give me this object
does this object have a stage name
property
yes it's 21 savage so that's the same
thing as me plugging in
21 savage
here into the span
right
info
zero we're just gonna keep doing it here
info zero birth name
does my first object have a birth name
property
it does we plug in their real name
so it's as though i took this real name
and plugged it in here
right
then info zero likes does it have a
likes property
yep and it has a value of one so it says
though i plugged in
one here
boom
now
the interesting thing is
it's not just going to stay like this
right we're going to we're going to put
it back what we had in here the
interesting thing is that we did this
for the first object
but how many more times do we need to do
this
how many more times do we need to do
i love people coming you should
definitely be using the map function
no
you got to be able to see it you got to
be able to feel it
we're here to learn not to be code
weenies right all right so we need to do
it three more times so this li
is going to be created three more
times
right
three more times and we're going to go
ahead and grab that data we're gonna go
ahead and grab
chance the wrapper and plug it in we're
gonna grab polo g and plug it in we're
gonna grab little nos x and plug it in
right
we're plugging it so somebody's saying
why a for loop though it's a for loop
because i have no idea
i have no idea how many wrappers are
going to be in my collection
right i have no idea how many rappers
are going to be in my collection but
with a loop
right with a loop i can do it as many
times as i need to i can create as many
lis as i need to
right and so this runs
i build out each of my allies
right can you use oh yeah you can use
you can use a lot of different stuff in
here right
right
remember we're not really worried about
the mechanics today we're worried about
the the why the picture right so this is
gonna this is gonna spit out three more
li's after our first one and when it's
done
we're gonna have an html file we're
gonna have an html file that has how
many li's
how many html files
right
yeah it's gonna have four allies
and so when we come back and look at our
code
we know that we just rendered out an
html file
and we just rendered out an html file
that had four lis in it and then what
the heck do we do
with that html file that has four lis in
it
we respond baby
we send it back to the browser and that
html file is loaded in the client side
and our user can see all the wrappers
that are currently
stored in our database so
i know it's a lot i know it's a lot when
we come back from our break
we are going to run through the get one
more time
and then ooh
look at it look at up
we're gonna go ahead and look at the
creating as well
right we look at the creating as well so
we'll we'll run through the get one more
time we'll see the code and then we'll
take a look at the create and we'll wrap
up with a delete as well
uh mr mike randazzo added a two minutes
to the timer so we get a sweet seven
minute break folks if you are able
holy fans teaser
uh let's go ahead and take a seven
minute break please
enjoy
if you're able to please get up move
around hydrate
and we'll be back in seven minutes folks
well i'm back come on back
please listen to dr levi
the fitness doctor
don't be like me
do your stretches take care of yourself
please i'm telling you if you don't take
care of yourself you it'll catch up
eventually
it was a jam
hey good to hear that thomas all right
let's get into it folks
all right so we talked about the get
let's run it back one more time one more
time let's run it back one more time
then we're gonna look at the creating so
all right let's see let's have a blank
canvas here
we type in the url we do
in our client side
in our browser
we type in the url
localhost 2121
that makes a request to our what
we use our client side and makes a
request to where
our server exactly
makes a request to our server
and our server
has some code running on it that can
hear that request
what do we call that code that can hear
the request
beautiful our api
and a part of that api
is something that's already been coded
that's listening for that type of
request
it was an app
dot get
and since we're on the main route we're
gonna see that lovely forward slash
now
once
that request was heard
we had coded some stuff that we wanted
to have happen
we wanted the request
to then go to our database
find our collection
of wrappers
and
we know that a collection is made up of
what
made up of objects
and so we're going to go ahead and find
all of those objects
that were inside of that collection
and once we have a bunch of objects
what can we use to hold all of those
objects
an array so we did two array
great
so all that we did is when we heard that
request we went to the database
we found our wrappers collection we
found all the documents in that
collection and we turned it into an
array
then once we had all that data in array
we passed that data into our what
passed it into our egs so we had this
all right we know we're going to do a
response
but we're going to respond by rendering
our ejs
file
which i believe is index.ejs
and we're going to render our ejs file
and we're going to pass in
all of our data
but we called it info and you're like
leon why did you call it info just i
picked something to show that that's how
it could happen but you can choose any
word that you want
all right
now
inside of our ejs
wherever we solved info
info was really holding our what
what was info holding inside of our ejs
file
it was holding the array of objects
exactly we looped through that array of
objects to build an li
for each object and when we were done
when this rendering was completed it
spit out what
spit out html
exactly
and it was already there for us the
whole time
we
it with that html to the browser
beautiful
once that html
hit the browser
what other requests did it make
yeah that actual html file right
the actual html file made a request
for a css file
a js file
right
and was there actually like a particular
part of our api that we set up that we
have to like code out our api to handle
that css and that js file request
nah
we were able to just use the public
folder
and we told express hey anything that's
in this public folder
just serve up no questions asked we
don't have to create a route for it we
don't do anything fancy we just drop it
in that folder and call it a day
oh express maybe
all right
how are we feeling about the get
how are we feeling about the get like
high level concept not like the leo and
i feel ready to type this out no that's
not where we're at like high level
concept we understand how full stack web
applications do this
cool
now what i want you to think about is
that
the
underlying bricks may be different
but every application you use is doing
something similar
they might use a different database they
might use a different web framework but
it's still a request
there's still an api hearing that
requests
they're still going and getting data
from a database they're still plugging
that into some kind of template and
they're still kind of they're still
responding with html
no matter what app you're using it could
be facebook it could be twitter it could
be anything like that still happening
underneath the hood plug in different
languages different kind of databases
different frameworks but every app is
doing the same type of stuff
cool
what was the create
chill billy hey thank you for the gift
of subs i appreciate that thank you for
being here
cool thank you so much
what
what was the creation here what are we
creating in this application
when every time we did what what were we
doing that was creating
yeah whenever we added a new wrapper
that was creating
cool
so let's go ahead
and create a new wrapper
keep clicking on this instead of here
let me slide this over here all right
let's add a new wrapper
rico
nasty
and i have no idea what their birth name
is
rico
nasty
there we go
boom
copy
cool
and let's submit
boom there we go so when i
let me remind you right
i'm a poppin let me remind you
they had one of the strongest bars in
that song what was it
come and find you oh what was that's
like one of my favorite bars of all time
too i'll remember it i'll share it later
[Laughter]
well i gotta look it up
let's see
i'm gonna go to genius over here it's
gonna bother me sorry the version we'll
come back to it
i don't even know if it's like stream
friendly for me to say it but
oh that's it
[Laughter]
i love this part i love this bar this is
so good okay i'm not gonna say the whole
thing on the stream
[Laughter]
i ain't scared we'll say itch i ain't
scared it's just a whole lot of gang
[__]
i'm a bear you're a [__]
reindeer
what
light bars
bars
where i stay you [__] can't go
there oh
bars bars bars bars
bars
i love that i every single time i pop
out my chair when when they say that
oh boy
i love that song
so much all right cool
uh we made a new post that was going to
bother me
when i have a bar in my brain i can't
remember it has to come out i have to
stop everything
all right
cool so we added we had it rico nasty
what was the actual request though what
did i do to make the request
it is a it is a post but what did i do
to like make that post happen
like what did i do
yeah i clicked the submit button
so when i click the submit button
that form
submit it
right when i click the submit button the
form
submitted and a bunch of stuff happened
when that form
submitted so let's talk through what
happens when a form
submits
cool
let's go back to our slides real quick
just because we have this nice little
handy dandy graphic here
so
it wasn't a url
it was the submission
of a form
and when i made the
submission that made what kind of
requests
when i submitted the form what type of
request did i make
yeah i made a post request
to the server
all right i made a post request to the
server now there was some code
that was set up
to hear the post request
from that form
the code that we wrote ahead of time
that was listening for that request
coming from the form was part of our
what was where was that code called
there was something in that code that
could hear the post request
yeah it was our api
and
we had a specific
post request just for that form i'll
show you in a second how we could have
multiple forms and how we can listen for
posts from different forms we'll get
there in a second but we made a post
request from the form
and we had a route set up to hear that
request
now when it heard that request
what did we do
we heard the post request
yeah
well something really interesting
when we sent that post request from our
form
we sent a lot of data along with it
we sent a lot of data along with that
form whenever you submit a form you're
sending a lot of information
not only are you sending
like
what was in the form
right you're sending a lot of
information about your browser like what
version of chrome you're running you're
sending like sometimes your ip address
cookies all this stuff gets sent and
it's this huge request that gets sent to
the server
right there's a lot of data that's part
of that server
right a lot of ideas part of that sorry
that's part of that request that gets
sent along
right
and so if you ever like wondered like
how people like know where you are
or like whatever like any of that stuff
like every single time you make a
request you're not just like making a
quest you're sending all this data along
with each each request your fingerprint
exactly
not only yet your user agent any of your
advertising cookies your tracker is
exactly right all this stuff gets sent
with a request and people store this
right you can store that information you
can see like all right request came from
this ip address it was this version of
chrome it was this um
these plugins that were installed right
and the interesting thing is like you
can like pretty uniquely identify people
not even based off of their ip address
but by like what version of chrome what
operating system what fonts you have
installed developers and designers stay
getting got because we have really
unique sets of fonts on our machines and
all that gets sent
right and so the cool thing is
we can actually look at that request
and pull the crap out of it that we want
right
browserleaks.com exactly try
browserleaks.com it'll show you
everything that's being sent with the
request pretty neat
um
but a part of this request was what what
two things were we really concerned
about with this request this time though
what two things were sent with that
request
yeah we we had some data that got sent
along we sent along their stage name and
their birth name along with this request
right
and so the interesting thing is
uh inside of our
app.posts
the very first thing that we have to do
is pull that data
out of the request
right we have to pull that data out of
the request
and once we have that data from the
request
what are we going to do with it
we're going to send it to the database
and we're going to create a new what in
our database we're going to create a new
one in our database
yeah we're going to create a new
document remember this is our
wrappers collection
we're going to create a new document
inside of this rapper's collection
that has rico
and what was their
their birth name
maria
that's a really pretty name maria
cecilia simone kelly
it's a beautiful name um
so they put rico and
maria
inside
of that document
right
so the request came through
we grabbed the data out of that request
we sent that data to our [__] database
where we created a document that had
that data
and then what was the last thing that we
did
there's one other thing we did
when we were done sending everything to
the database we were done creating the
document
what did we what did what did the what
do we tell the browser to do
yeah we told the browser everything went
okay
it's time for you to refresh
and when
the browser refreshed
it made a what
it made a get request
the get request did its thing it went to
the database but this time when it went
to the database
when it went to the database this time
there was one new document for rico
nasty
right there's one new document in there
right and when we passed all that data
to the ejs
this time instead of doing four allies
instead of doing four allies we did five
lies right because now there's an extra
document it's no longer four allies
there's now a fifth so we create sorry
fifth document so we create a fifth li
in that ejs
that ejs spits out the html
and we respond with that html
right so it started off with a post and
we ended up here
charlotte 98 our
car lot car lot in 98 thank you so much
for the hydration cheers to you
salute my friend
minty fresh it is
costco had it
jasper there is no timer we're at the
end of stream is that a flex
i think jasper's just flexing jasper's
like i can i got so many channel points
i can i can put up timers when there's
no timers
he's like ah hey look at me splashing
out these channel points
you gotta like that huh jasper
oh boy
all right so
we ready to see the code
if you remind me next class we can do it
on the first one but y'all chat has to
remind me
all right you ready to see the code
jess was like nah it's okay i got it
like that
i love it
[Laughter]
he's like nah we good
y'all the best
give vip yeah let's get beehive that was
hilarious
i gotta fight there we go
jack 20 jasper
well jasper you got vip made me laugh
now you now you can flex for real
cool all right
so let's take a look at the code
remember we made a post made a post
we submitted a form
i cannot spell to save my life today i
just could not spell i'm glad you
couldn't see it
i'm glad you couldn't see it i literally
messed up spelling form
all right so we submitted a form
which made a post request to our server
our server was set up to hear the post
request from that form
it was set up to hear the post request
from that form
it took the data that came along with
that post request
we sent that data to our [__] database
specifically our wrappers collection
we created a new document
right a new document that had that data
in it
and then once we were done
we said all right refresh that refresh
triggered the get and
the rest is history
let's take a look at the code
all right
so here is our post
once again remember
same stuff we've seen over and over
again
don't freak out when we see it
right same stuff every single time
in here
we have
the same stuff we saw with the get we're
just going to do
things that are a little bit different
all right things that are a little bit
different
can we avoid the page refresh yes but
that's something we're going to get to
later i want to i want you to see i want
you to feel raw i want it to feel real i
want you to to see
the uh
the the the the the the the what's
actually happening underneath the hood
oh this
and it's jasper too
my name's jasper no i'm not a rapper i'm
just here to make my stacks grow faster
now if you know what that's from y'all
some real ogs
hey i see you bark
all right
cool
so the post request was made
abracadabra
abracada if you watch lunar squad
abracadabra that's the best oh it's
hilarious all right anyway let's get
back into it
we made a post request yeah it was odd
future it's from odd future yeah uh we
made a post request
once we hear that post requests come in
we go to the database
we find the rapper's collection
and what do we want to do inside that
collection
what do we want to do inside of that
we want to put a document into that
collection
and look at this beauty of a piece of
look at this just look at it
look at it
i don't have to learn some new querying
language
i don't have to learn like how to do
some fancy database stuff i literally
say insert one
insert one
and whatever i put inside
of these curly braces
right whatever i put inside these curly
braces
that's what gets put into the database
that's it that's what gets put into the
database
right i can put anything i want in here
let's let's clean this up
let's make this do something really wild
let's just let's just inside of here do
jasper
vip
that's it we're gonna do jasper vip
that's it
we save it let's restart the server
i might have made some other changes
that'll break this but let's see
all right
let's go ahead and run this back
let's put anything we want into this um
into this thing here
gonna say test
test
right test test
right all i've typed in test test but
let's go to our [__] database and take
a peek
look what's inside of our database
jasper
vip
right
there's a refresh button there is yeah
that's that's it that's what we put in
there if we look let's go back let's
take a look
we we submitted the form
we submitted the form
we went to the database
we found the rapper's collection
and we inserted a new document
that had
jasper vip in it that's it
and then we told the page to refresh
right when the page refreshed
we made a get request
and it didn't know what to do like our
ejs
didn't know what to do
with jasper vip
because our ejs was looking for stage
name
and birth name
and it just was that wasn't here so the
ejs didn't know what to do with it but
the beautiful thing is it didn't break
it just it just rolled with the punches
like i don't know and kept moving
it's beautiful
like it's so flexible
i feel like so um so many folks get
really kind of like
they get they get really like um
they get they they get really tight
about this stuff but it's so flexible it
just like lets you do what you want to
do and
it's unevennated exactly right it it it
just kind of gets out your way and it
just it's oh it's just beautiful
i really love this stuff like i really
really do
and i i hope that i'm doing at least a
somewhat okay job
of like showing you like how
cool and like
not too wild this idea is right like we
we
we heard the post requests just like we
heard all the other events
right
just like we heard a get just like we
heard anything else we've seen so far
but now we can hear a post
right
and now we're going to go to the
database we're going to go to the
wrappers collection and we're going to
insert a new document
right a new document that we have full
control over we can put whatever the
heck we want into there
right
we can put every whatever the heck we
want into there
but this time we just chose to put
jasper in there
right we could put whatever the heck we
want in there but we chose to put that
so let's take a look at what we did
actually have there in the beginning
stage name
birth name
and likes
what i am doing here
is i am crafting
the document
that's going into our database
right i am crafting
the document that's going into our
database
and i am literally
giving it its property
and value
property
property and value
remember how i said
that so much stuff gets sent with that
request
well one of the things that we can look
at when that request comes through
is this thing called the request
body
right
is the request a body it's just stuff
that gets sent along with the request
and part of the stuff that's getting
sent with that request
is anything that came
out of the form
so to understand what's happening here
we have to look at the form
okay
let's take a look at the form
and i want to show you
here in our form
here's our form
let's take a look
the form
has an action
of add wrapper
notice that action
is the same
as our route
that's how we could have different forms
that are all looking for different
posts
right we could have as many different
forms as we want
right
and the way we tie our api
to a specific form
is that the route
is the same
as our action
okay
the route
and action have to be the same look look
the action on the form is add wrapper
and the route on my post
is add wrapper
right that's how we connect them we
connect the form and the route via the
action
cool
now let's look at the actual form itself
and you'll notice that we have two
inputs
how do we differentiate between the two
well they both have different name
properties
whatever
name i put there
is how i can get that data
from the request remember this form is
going to submit and we're going to send
all the data
with this
request right this post request look
we're even telling it it should be a
post request we're going to send all
this data with the post request and
inside that data will be something
called the request
body
and that body is going to have a stage
name property
and
a
birth
name
property
once we look at the request
we're going to be able to grab that
stage name
and that birth name i know that's a jump
so let's let's see it
let's see it let's actually see the
request and let's actually see the body
as well
let's go ahead and do it
so let's do the request i was going to
console log the request
just so you can see all the wild stuff
all right so first i'm just going to
console.log the request just so we can
see it okay
all right let me restart my server here
we're running on port 2021 we're
connected to the database
um let's go ahead and and um
add a wrapper here
excuse me
all right let's go ahead and add a
wrapper
um somebody give me a wrapper who should
we add
all right
i'm just gonna pick my own
thank you though
uh baby keem there you go i don't know
why they popped into my brain uh baby
keem i don't know what their real name
is
so let's go ahead and look up baby keem
real quick
you got got
all right
wow
cool
copy
come back to our application here
all right let's submit all right so i
submitted my post request
right
i submitted my post requests
the request came to my server
and we should have been able to console
log the request
look at all this crap
that came along with the requests
look at all this crap i'm not even gonna
go all the way up
but look at all this stuff that came
along with the request
all this stuff and at the very end
at the very end
what do we see
we made a sim we submitted the form
right
submitted the form
all this data came along with the
request this is what express is doing
express is handling all of this for us
we don't have to know [__] about this
express just does it for us like what
what
right we need thicker wires
we do all this data is being sent along
but at the very very bottom
the very very bottom we see this we see
this part of it and it's just an object
right it's just an object that's being
sent right
at the very very end we see an object
that has the property
of body
right
has the property of body
and inside of that body we can see stage
name and birth name
uh key value pairs here
why
or sorry how did we get this
key of stage name and this key of birth
name where did those come from
we can see that a part of the request we
got this request body
but where did stage name and birth name
come from
the form exactly if we go back and look
at the form
if we go back and look at the form
if we go back and look at the form we
can see that the first input had the
name of stage name
and if we look
the first property is stage name
and we saw the second input had the name
of birth name and we can see that the
second property is birth name
so when a form
submits
it is making a post
request
right it is making a post request and
all of this information is being sent
with that request
including
a body property
that has the information
that came from the form
itself
and so the cool thing is
we can
yoink
and grab these values
out of this body object
right
out of this body object and so if we go
to our server you can see that's exactly
what we're doing look at this
look at the request
grab the body property
and grab the stage name out of this
what the part i have highlighted right
now what does that actually like result
in what is that resolved to if we looked
at the request we went to the body we
grabbed the stage name what is it what's
the value there
it's the same thing as me plugging in
baby
keem exactly
and
if we come down here to birth name it's
the same thing as if i had plugged in
this bit here
so now
the cool thing is
when i go ahead and i insert the
document
into my database
when i insert the document to my
database it will now have the stage name
property of baby keem it'll have the
birth name with the value of
jamal carter and then it also has this
right here likes
right
did that likes come from anywhere or did
i just hard code it
did lex come from anywhere
yeah i hard-coded it i want each of my
um
each of my wrappers that have likes next
to them so i didn't get that from like
the request body or anything i just
hard-coded it so the cool thing is like
we could hard-code any value that we
want to put into
into the document
right anything i want to put into that
document i could hard code here and
that's why when we when we go and look
at our
actual database
and i refresh it i think this was
actually running right
we're gonna see that there's a likes of
zero hard-coded as well
right so we got the stage name and birth
name from the form
and i also hard-coded likes
cool
so let me go ahead and undo this real
quick
and why
just real quick why why am i not going
to hard code baby keem why am i not
going to hard code their birth name here
why do i have these kind of like
variables that are pulling from the
request body
yeah so i can reuse it
over and over again i want i want i want
to i want to be able to submit every
rapper into this form right i want to be
able to
submit request after request after
request after request right i want to be
able to sit there and make requests all
day long with different wrappers right
and so if i hard coded they would all
just be baby keem no matter what i put
into that form if i hardcoded baby keem
here it would just be baby keem every
single time we don't want that we want
to be able to reuse it right we'll be
able to reuse that code over and over
again
cool
all right
let's go down here it's gonna
chill my server for a second
and clear this all right
let me i'm gonna get rid of this console
so we don't blow out our console every
single time
save this
go ahead and restart the server just so
that it's running
right connected to the database
beautiful now the very last thing
the very last thing
i went ahead
i inserted that value into the database
what's the last thing that we do
look at our response
so far we saw a response to send a file
we saw a response for some json
we saw a response for
rendering some ejs
but this response
is a redirect
back to the main route which triggers
exactly i see you in chat you refresh
it triggers a refresh
and so once it refreshes
we actually make a
get request right we make a get request
this time we go to the database we go to
the wrappers collection we find all the
documents that are inside that wrapper's
collection we turn them into an array we
pass that array into the ejs
and this time there is one new document
or one new object in that array that
we're passing in for baby keem we plug
that into our egs there's more lis now
this ejs spits out an html file and we
respond with that html file that has
the wonderful
baby key minute
and it all happened so fast like we're
on
we're relieving ourselves and and
codes flying around the interwebs and
it's going to servers it's doing all
this stuff it's going to database and it
comes back
like
what
that's wild
it's magic
but you now know how to do it
so
that make you
you're a wizard
a code wizard
a magician
[Laughter]
you're a wizard harry
code weenie
no you're not a code weaning until you
start going i don't know about this ejs
leon
i don't know i'm gonna be using pug you
know what i might i might just skip all
this and go straight to react that's
when you become the code we need
for now for now we're all wizards we'll
take that
all right
one more thing one more thing let's
let's just
we got like two minutes but i'm gonna go
let me go like three or four minutes
over
three more minutes and then we'll then
we'll do a raid
all right three or four minutes and then
i just want to talk about the delete
real quick
and if we got the get we know the post
right
the the get's not too too wild
okay
knox is like that's bingo
all right let's take a look
all right
how can the user how can we delete
something let's let's say goodbye to
baby keem
boom baby keem went away
all right baby keem went away
what what heard that click
what heard that click on the trash can
the smurfs our event listeners our
client-side javascript heard that click
what's the only thing that we know of
that can make a request from the client
side
what's the only thing that we've used so
far
a fetch
so if we actually go ahead and look at
this um
lovely main js
right if we look at this lovely main js
what we'll see is that
it actually makes a
fetch we can see this fetch here i'm
using the lovely async await syntax
right look at that ooh sexy right it
makes this fetch
and what type of fetch do we tell it to
make
this is coming from the client-side
javascript right that heard that click
look we're inside of a click event right
the same click event that we've always
seen this is exactly the same code that
you use for your fetches don't get wild
out here right
it's a fetch but we told it to be a
delete
so the fetch name is delete wrapper
and we told it to be a delete so if we
look at our code
we have
a delete on delete wrapper so our api
set up to hear this delete request right
so we made a fetch that was a delete
request to the server
that request that delete request
made it to the server
right made it to the server
no one's saying delete anymore
made it to the server
our api
had a
route that heard that delete request
right remember with the fetch was a
delete fetch it had the path already
right we heard the delete
and when we heard the delete what did we
do
when we heard the delete what did we
code it to do
please so last year
on i'm in shock this all makes sense to
me hey
i'm glad it's making sense
yeah it went to the database
it went to the database and it deleted
the document from our collection of
rappers
and once it removed that document from
the collection of our rappers what did
it what did it do
it told the browser to refresh
and when it refreshed that made a get
request the get request went to our
database but when it went to the
database it was missing this other
document that document had been deleted
so when it passed the data to the ejs it
was missing one
and it sent that html as a response
so when we delete something we're
literally just going to the database and
deleting that content from the database
and then telling the browser to refresh
and when the browser refreshes it goes
to get all that data and it's missing
something and that's why we don't see
that data in the html anymore
let's take a look at the code and then
we'll do a raid here it is
our api was set up to hear that delete
that was coming from that fetch request
we went to the database we found the
rapper's collection and we told it to
delete one
what
it's i don't have to learn a querying
language i literally just say delete one
what
and then i tell it what to delete
i tell it to go
and find an object
right find an object
find an object that had a stage name
of
baby keem
right with my delete request i sent some
data
right just like i did it with the post
but we did it from the fetch i sent some
data
right
and i then went to my database
i found
someone that had the stage name of baby
keem and that is what got deleted from
the database
since it's a fetch
since it was a fetch what was the fetch
waiting for
what was the fetch waiting for
it was waiting for some some sweet sweet
sweet response probably some json a
promise right so what are we gonna do
we're gonna hit that fetch
with some json as a response
and if we go back and look at the fetch
once it
heard
the response
what did it do
once it heard the response
it refreshed and when it refreshed
when it refreshed that triggered a get
we went to the data went to the server
we heard the get we went to the database
that last document was missing we passed
the data into the ejs it spit out the
html the html was missing
that baby keem
and we sent that html missing baby keem
why is the refresh now client status at
a server side because we made a fetch
and this fetch has to what
this fetch has to has to what
it has to resolve the fetch has to
resolve and so we know that we're
responding back to this fetch
once we hear that response we just tell
it to refresh right there
eventually we'll handle this stuff
asynchronously we do other things but
for now i really want you to be able to
see it like step
by step to see what's happening so
tonight we dove deep into the getting
we dove deep into
the posting
right
we we we hinted
we hinted at some
uh lovely
lovely
deleting or delay taying
right we hit we hit on some delay teying
right
and so
what we have left to do now
is to when we come back on thursday
dive a little bit deeper into this
deleting i don't think we're fully there
on the deleting
right we're gonna dive a little bit
deeper into the deleting
we are going to
see the updating
we're gonna see the updating and we're
gonna talk about all the accessory code
that makes this work so on thursday
we're jumping right into it right
jumping right into it we're gonna see
the updating we're gonna see the
deleting in more detail and we're gonna
see all of the extra stuff that's making
this work just so we can get a feel for
it
in the follow-up to this uh when i
follow up to the message on on discord i
will send you this repo
for homework please for homework
i would love i would love
if you
went through made sure you had your
[__] atlas account
if you haven't done the homework maybe
take a peek at it and then start playing
with this code the goal would be to make
your own app and get it on heroku but
you don't have to do that yet just start
playing with the class you have to
actively recall after this class
there's no way that this stuff makes
sense uh unless you are actively
recalling so please actively recall
make sure that you are reviewing this
maybe catch the vod again
right
play with it play with the code see if
it makes sense maybe try connecting your
database right see how that goes and
then on thursday we're going to run it
all back
we're going to run it all back we're
going to see the
last part which is the updating and then
we're going to take our two-week
well-deserved break so please please
come on thursday i really want to see i
really want to drive these points home
that way if you choose to work on your
apps during the break you can but you're
there folks you are there
you are there
you have the ability to build full stack
web applications even if you just hung
on to like 30 50 of what's happened
tonight
you're there
it's not much more after this we're
gonna plug in some little things here or
there but you're there you can do it you
are a full stack web developer all right
so let's bring it home on thursday let's
make sure we can do the rest that we
need to do
and
let's go ahead and do a raid
uh polaroid was in here yesterday on
last i think maybe office hours or on
thursday
they were in here helping folks out so
let's let's go over to them and say
what's up
all right queuing up the raid
have a wonderful rest of your night
folks i hope you are doing well i hope
that you will take what we learned
tonight to build amazing things i know
you're going to do that let's go ahead
and raid peace everyone
you're doing great i don't care if it's
clicking 100 or 10 you're doing great
you're showing up and that's more than
most folks can say
let's raid